README.md, before:

# get_storage_plus

> **Note**: This package is based on the original [get_storage](https://pub.dev/packages/get_storage) package by [Jonny Borges](https://github.com/jonataslaw/get_storage), with additional features and improvements including WebAssembly support.

A fast, extra light and synchronous key-value in memory, which backs up data to disk at each operation.
It is written entirely in Dart and easily integrates with Get framework of Flutter.

Supports Android, iOS, Web, Mac, Linux, and fuchsia and Windows**. 
Can store String, int, double, Map and List

## 🚀 WebAssembly (WASM) Support
GetStorage now fully supports **WebAssembly compilation** for Flutter web apps! This enables:
- **Up to 3x faster execution** compared to JavaScript compilation
- **Better memory efficiency** and performance
- **Future-proof compatibility** with WebAssembly-first Flutter web

### Building with WebAssembly:
```bash
# Build your Flutter web app with WebAssembly support
flutter build web --release --wasm
```

The package automatically uses WebAssembly-compatible storage implementation when compiled with WASM, while maintaining full compatibility with regular JavaScript builds.

### Add to your pubspec:
```
dependencies:
  get_storage_plus:
```
### Install it

You can install packages from the command line:

with `Flutter`:

```css
$  flutter packages get
```

## About this Package

This package (`get_storage_plus`) is based on the original [get_storage](https://pub.dev/packages/get_storage) package created by [Jonny Borges](https://github.com/jonataslaw). 

### Key Improvements:
- ✅ **WebAssembly (WASM) Support** - Full compatibility with Flutter's WASM compilation
- ✅ **Enhanced Performance** - Optimized for modern Flutter versions
- ✅ **Updated Dependencies** - Compatible with latest Flutter and Dart versions
- ✅ **Improved Documentation** - Better examples and usage guides

### Credits
- Original package: [get_storage](https://pub.dev/packages/get_storage) by [Jonny Borges](https://github.com/jonataslaw)
- Maintained by: [lcw99](https://github.com/lcw99)

### Import it

Now in your `Dart` code, you can use: 

````dart
import 'package:get_storage_plus/get_storage_plus.dart';
````

### Initialize storage driver with await:
```dart
main() async {
  await GetStorage.init();
  runApp(App());
}
```
#### use GetStorage through an instance or use directly `GetStorage().read('key')`
```dart
final box = GetStorage();
```
#### To write information you must use `write` :
```dart
box.write('quote', 'GetX is the best');
```

#### To read values you use `read`:
```dart
print(box.read('quote'));
// out: GetX is the best

```
#### To remove a key, you can use `remove`:

```dart
box.remove('quote');
```

#### To listen changes you can use `listen`:
```dart
Function? disposeListen;
disposeListen = box.listen((){
  print('box changed');
});
```
#### If you subscribe to events, be sure to dispose them when using:
```dart
disposeListen?.call();
```
#### To listen changes on key you can use `listenKey`:

```dart
box.listenKey('key', (value){
  print('new key is $value');
});
```

#### To erase your container:
```dart
box.erase();
```

#### If you want to create different containers, simply give it a name. You can listen to specific containers, and also delete them.

```dart
GetStorage g = GetStorage('MyStorage');
```

#### To initialize specific container:
```dart
await GetStorage.init('MyStorage');
```

## SharedPreferences Implementation
```dart
class MyPref {
  static final _otherBox = () => GetStorage('MyPref');

  final username = ''.val('username');
  final age = 0.val('age');
  final price = 1000.val('price', getBox: _otherBox);

  // or
  final username2 = ReadWriteValue('username', '');
  final age2 = ReadWriteValue('age', 0);
  final price2 = ReadWriteValue('price', '', _otherBox);
}

...

void updateAge() {
  final age = 0.val('age');
  // or 
  final age = ReadWriteValue('age', 0, () => box);
  // or 
  final age = Get.find<MyPref>().age;

  age.val = 1; // will save to box
  final realAge = age.val; // will read from box
}
```


## Benchmark Result:
**GetStorage is not fast, it is absurdly fast for being memory-based. All of his operations are instantaneous. A backup of each operation is placed in a Container on the disk. Each container has its own file.**

![](delete.png)
![](write.png)
![](read.png)

## What GetStorage is:
Persistent key/value storage for Android, iOS, Web, Linux, Mac and Fuchsia and Windows, that combines fast memory access with persistent storage. **Optimized for WebAssembly** when building Flutter web apps with `--wasm` flag for enhanced performance.
## What GetStorage is NOT:
A database. Get is super compact to offer you a solution ultra-light, high-speed read/write storage to work synchronously. If you want to store data persistently on disk with immediate memory access, use it, if you want a database, with indexing and specific disk storage tools, there are incredible solutions that are already available, like Hive and Sqflite/Moor.


As soon as you declare "write" the file is immediately written in memory and can now be accessed immediately with `box.read()`. You can also wait for the callback that it was written to disk using `await box.write()`.

## When to use GetStorage:
  - simple Maps storage.
  - cache of http requests
  - storage of simple user information.
  - simple and persistent state storage
  - any situation you currently use sharedPreferences.

## When not to use GetStorage:
  - you need indexes.
  -  when you need to always check if the file was written to the storage disk before starting another operation (storage in memory is done instantly and can be read instantly with box.read(), and the backup to disk is done in the background. To make sure the backup is complete, you can use await, but if you need to call await all the time, it makes no sense you are using memory storage).

### You can use this lib even as a modest persistent state manager using Getx SimpleBuilder

Commit message:

Rename package from get_storage_plus to get_storage_wasm

README.md, after:

# get_storage_wasm

> **Note**: This package is based on the original [get_storage](https://pub.dev/packages/get_storage) package by [Jonny Borges](https://github.com/jonataslaw/get_storage), with additional features and improvements including WebAssembly support.

A fast, extra light and synchronous key-value in memory, which backs up data to disk at each operation.
It is written entirely in Dart and easily integrates with Get framework of Flutter.

Supports Android, iOS, Web, Mac, Linux, and fuchsia and Windows**. 
Can store String, int, double, Map and List

## 🚀 WebAssembly (WASM) Support
GetStorage now fully supports **WebAssembly compilation** for Flutter web apps! This enables:
- **Up to 3x faster execution** compared to JavaScript compilation
- **Better memory efficiency** and performance
- **Future-proof compatibility** with WebAssembly-first Flutter web

### Building with WebAssembly:
```bash
# Build your Flutter web app with WebAssembly support
flutter build web --release --wasm
```

The package automatically uses WebAssembly-compatible storage implementation when compiled with WASM, while maintaining full compatibility with regular JavaScript builds.

### Add to your pubspec:
```
dependencies:
  get_storage_wasm:
```
### Install it

You can install packages from the command line:

with `Flutter`:

```css
$  flutter packages get
```

## About this Package

This package (`get_storage_wasm`) is based on the original [get_storage](https://pub.dev/packages/get_storage) package created by [Jonny Borges](https://github.com/jonataslaw). 

### Key Improvements:
- ✅ **WebAssembly (WASM) Support** - Full compatibility with Flutter's WASM compilation
- ✅ **Enhanced Performance** - Optimized for modern Flutter versions
- ✅ **Updated Dependencies** - Compatible with latest Flutter and Dart versions
- ✅ **Improved Documentation** - Better examples and usage guides

### Credits
- Original package: [get_storage](https://pub.dev/packages/get_storage) by [Jonny Borges](https://github.com/jonataslaw)
- Maintained by: [lcw99](https://github.com/lcw99)

### Import it

Now in your `Dart` code, you can use: 

````dart
import 'package:get_storage_wasm/get_storage_wasm.dart';
````

### Initialize storage driver with await:
```dart
main() async {
  await GetStorage.init();
  runApp(App());
}
```
#### use GetStorage through an instance or use directly `GetStorage().read('key')`
```dart
final box = GetStorage();
```
#### To write information you must use `write` :
```dart
box.write('quote', 'GetX is the best');
```

#### To read values you use `read`:
```dart
print(box.read('quote'));
// out: GetX is the best

```
#### To remove a key, you can use `remove`:

```dart
box.remove('quote');
```

#### To listen changes you can use `listen`:
```dart
Function? disposeListen;
disposeListen = box.listen((){
  print('box changed');
});
```
#### If you subscribe to events, be sure to dispose them when using:
```dart
disposeListen?.call();
```
#### To listen changes on key you can use `listenKey`:

```dart
box.listenKey('key', (value){
  print('new key is $value');
});
```

#### To erase your container:
```dart
box.erase();
```

#### If you want to create different containers, simply give it a name. You can listen to specific containers, and also delete them.

```dart
GetStorage g = GetStorage('MyStorage');
```

#### To initialize specific container:
```dart
await GetStorage.init('MyStorage');
```

## SharedPreferences Implementation
```dart
class MyPref {
  static final _otherBox = () => GetStorage('MyPref');

  final username = ''.val('username');
  final age = 0.val('age');
  final price = 1000.val('price', getBox: _otherBox);

  // or
  final username2 = ReadWriteValue('username', '');
  final age2 = ReadWriteValue('age', 0);
  final price2 = ReadWriteValue('price', '', _otherBox);
}

...

void updateAge() {
  final age = 0.val('age');
  // or 
  final age = ReadWriteValue('age', 0, () => box);
  // or 
  final age = Get.find<MyPref>().age;

  age.val = 1; // will save to box
  final realAge = age.val; // will read from box
}
```


## Benchmark Result:
**GetStorage is not fast, it is absurdly fast for being memory-based. All of his operations are instantaneous. A backup of each operation is placed in a Container on the disk. Each container has its own file.**

![](delete.png)
![](write.png)
![](read.png)

## What GetStorage is:
Persistent key/value storage for Android, iOS, Web, Linux, Mac and Fuchsia and Windows, that combines fast memory access with persistent storage. **Optimized for WebAssembly** when building Flutter web apps with `--wasm` flag for enhanced performance.
## What GetStorage is NOT:
A database. Get is super compact to offer you a solution ultra-light, high-speed read/write storage to work synchronously. If you want to store data persistently on disk with immediate memory access, use it, if you want a database, with indexing and specific disk storage tools, there are incredible solutions that are already available, like Hive and Sqflite/Moor.


As soon as you declare "write" the file is immediately written in memory and can now be accessed immediately with `box.read()`. You can also wait for the callback that it was written to disk using `await box.write()`.

## When to use GetStorage:
  - simple Maps storage.
  - cache of http requests
  - storage of simple user information.
  - simple and persistent state storage
  - any situation you currently use sharedPreferences.

## When not to use GetStorage:
  - you need indexes.
  -  when you need to always check if the file was written to the storage disk before starting another operation (storage in memory is done instantly and can be read instantly with box.read(), and the backup to disk is done in the background. To make sure the backup is complete, you can use await, but if you need to call await all the time, it makes no sense you are using memory storage).

### You can use this lib even as a modest persistent state manager using Getx SimpleBuilder
